Bamidele Bamike Working life has entered a new normal. Before the global pandemic, the conventional understanding had been that offices were critical to productivity, culture, and winning the war for talent. Companies competed intensely for prime office space in major urban locations around the world, and many focused on solutions that were seen to promote collaboration. Before now, logistics, open-office architecture, hoteling, and co-working environment were the primary concerns. But estimates suggest that 25% of companies are willing to move 10% of their employees to permanent remote positions even after 2020. Contrary to what they say that the grass isn’t always greener on the other side, it seems to be emerald green when it comes to remote work. According to Buffer, 99% of remote workers would like to continue doing so to some extent. Twitter has already said that all its employees will be allowed to work from home permanently and Facebook expects half its staff to do so within a decade. This is an indication that the new “working-from-home economy” will continue long past the Coronavirus pandemic. Many employees liberated from long commutes and travel have found more productive ways to spend that time, enjoyed greater flexibility in balancing their personal and professional lives, and decided that they prefer to work from home rather than the office. Many organizations think they can access new pools of talent with fewer locational constraints, adopt innovative processes to boost productivity, create an even stronger culture, and significantly reduce real-estate costs. Thanks to technological advancements of the 21st century – all these are possible. At the forefront of creating a smart living for all is LG Electronics. The South Korean company has redefined the footprint of creativity and productivity with its products across the world. According to Mr. Taeick Son, Managing Director, LG Electronics, West Africa Operations said; “As a global company, LG Electronics has come a long way in supporting millions of households with quality, cutting-edge technological products. Our philosophy to technology and innovative designs has obviously endeared us to our esteemed consumers in Nigeria and all over the world. “This is a good time to get LG OLED TV Series. Our latest LG’s brilliant OLEDs, excellent NanoCell TVs, and smarter-than-average smart TVs have arrived for 2020. While we’re still waiting on some of the more exotic models, like the LG Rollable RX OLED, you can already enjoy great moments with families and friends he averred. “LG OLED TVs transforms the way we consume content, they take movies, TV shows and gaming to a different level. Packed with 4K resolution and even deeper shades of black, you’ll enjoy every minute of your entertainment whilst you work at home or from anywhere” . He added With an LG Ultrawide monitor you’ll discover cutting-edge display technology and slim designs, from the LG CINEMA 3D monitor, the new standard in 3-dimensional excellence, to our dazzling LED and LCD monitors, which offer state-of-the-art display and features. You’ll get a new outlook on life with monitors and other computer equipment from LG. From 25 inch to 34 inch monitors, LG Ultrawide monitors are perfect fit every home. They’re even greater for the communication software (such as Microsoft Teams and Slack) that has become so vital for working on the cloud and communicating with coworkers, and when paired with the lightweight 17-inch LG gram, the owner can video conference at home and away on the recently booming Zoom, Webex and Teams platforms. The LG UltraFine series also offer mesmerizing 4K/5K resolution on vivid IPS/fast VA panels with the best gaming features and easy installation anywhere, particularly good for creative professionals like animators, artists, graphic designers and architects needing that extra bit of detail. For those recreating the office in their home, LG has a wide range of powerful yet compact CineBeam projectors that do the job right. Simply display a presentation on a clear wall and see things in 150 inches that you wouldn’t normally see on a small screen. Connected Home Powered by the Internet One of the award-winning products of LG that has indeed enrich the lives of many customers is LG ThinQ AI which connects living room to the new world of possibilities. With the widest assortment of wi-fi enabled appliances and one app to manage them all, LG makes managing your smart appliances easy. Download the free LG ThinQ app to get started. ThinQ technology allows you the freedom to balance a myriad of daily tasks through the use of a simple smartphone app. With PCC, your phone sends you contextual alerts along with handy reports intelligently based on how you use them. This brings homeowners next-level peace of mind when appliances are being used even more. It even tells you when you need to replace your appliances’ filters, and when they need a clean. Always Learning Online LG has proven that it can craft a laptop as good as any. LG gram has an impressive lineup of lightweight laptops that are not only durable, but have a long-lasting battery. This is a tool that will improve your productivity while working from home, studying or at your office. The most innovative model in the LG gram lineup is the 2-in-1. What makes it ideal for schoolwork is its stylus support which helps create a more natural note-taking experience with the use of an active pen. As students, smart device that can further help you learn online, like language apps, are on the rise. These apps look great on LG Velvet, especially when combined with the Dual Screen which permits learners to view a lesson on one screen while taking notes on the other. LG’s new midrange phone has an attractive design and 5G for a reasonable price. The Velvet is a new design language for LG. It’s bigger, more tapered, and it feels more modern than the G series, with its three cameras and flash in a vertical series of circles down the shimmery gray or silver back panel.