The Nigerian Stock Exchange released its 2019 Sustainability Report themed “Encouraging Sustainable Businesses, Promoting Inclusive Growth”. The report is a detailed compilation of the progress and milestones achieved by the NSE during the reporting period in line with its sustainability commitments, which were developed following the launch of its Corporate Sustainability and Responsibility (CSR) strategy in 2013. The report also provides an update on activities implemented by the NSE, which contributed towards efforts to achieve the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) across its ecosystem. Highlights of the Report include: Commenting on the report, the Head, Corporate Communications, Olumide Orojimi, NSE, Mr. Olumide Orojimi, said, “At The Exchange, we continue to hold ourselves accountable to the highest standards, constantly exploring new ways to apply sustainability practices in our business operations and promote the integration of Environmental, Social and Governance imperatives in the Nigerian capital market. This year’s report, therefore, spotlights the remarkable progress we made in implementing our strategic objectives with corresponding measurable impact on all stakeholder groups.” “Recognising the critical role the capital market plays in achieving the SDGs, we also pushed forward in our commitment to galvanise action towards responsible business practices and disclosures by issuing the NSE Sustainability Disclosure Guidelines and launching the Facts Behind the Sustainability Report series. These initiatives, amongst others, will have a far reaching impact on the practice of disclosure of non-financial activities across the private sector and further position the economy in favor of the big shift towards inclusive economic growth, driven by sustainable, responsible and impact investment”, Mr. Orojimi added. The report was written in accordance with the “core” option of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards and complies with the minimum requirements of the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) Communication of Progress (COP). In addition, the report aligns with the reporting requirements of the NSE Sustainability Disclosure Guidelines. Prior to the 2019 sustainability report, the NSE has published five sustainability reports in accordance with the GRI sustainability reporting guidelines.