The Lagos State Environmental Protection Agency (LASEPA), on Saturday, advocated and sensitised the visitors at the KFA “Early Momo” Open Food Market on the need to avoid physical contact and also comply with distancing and other safety protocols to flatten the curve and control the spread of the COVID-19 in Lagos. Speaking at the event which took place at the KFA Events Centre, Lekki, the General Manager, LASEPA, Dr Dolapo Fasawe said that the Agency’s presence at the market was to appraise preparedness of the people for the new normal, especially after the long break from socio-economic engagements. She noted that in the past, markets were places to gather, network and converse, saying the current situation has denied us these luxuries, hence the need for us all to be more creative and think outside the box for new, safe and acceptable ideas that promote the healthy and conducive environment. In her words, “This laudable innovation came on the heels of the success story of our recently tested ‘Drive-In Concert’ and also coincided with this year’s World Environmental Day (WED), which called for a re-examination of our relationship with the natural world”. “We are completely dependent on healthy and vibrant ecosystems for our health, water, food, medicines, clothes, fuel, shelter and energy and thus, the need for us all to work together at all levels to build a future of life in harmony with nature”, she asserted. While declaring that LASEPA’s presence at the event also indicated its support for the good initiative of the Convener, Kemi Adeleke, Fasawe expressed the readiness of the government to encourage good innovations that promote an eco-friendly environment in line with its development Agenda. She said, “Maintaining physical distancing in the absence of effective hygiene practices may not prevent the spread of the virus, thus the need for complete observation of all safety protocols to ensure that visitors and farmers are safe”. Fasawe stressed that the Agency will ensure adequate provisions are made for handwashing by visitors before entry into the market, their temperatures checked and the provision of informative signage at entrances, as well as the positioning of LASEPA staff at strategic locations, to ensure crowd control at the market. The event, which also had representatives of the Lagos State Safety Commission in attendance, was later declared open by Dr Dolapo Fasawe after giving a safety talk while expressing satisfaction with the conduct of participants in respect of the physical distancing protocols. The first KFA food market had over 50 participants who displayed their farm produce within the space allocated to them in line with safety guidelines.