By OBINNA EZUGWU Former bank CEO and two-time governorship aspirant in Abia State under the All Progressive Grand Alliance (APGA) platform, Dr. Alex Otti, has wished the state governor, Dr. Okezie Ikpeazu quick recovery from Coronavirus.
Ikpeazu tested positive for the virus few days ago and is currently in isolation receiving treatment. Wishing him speedy recovery in a statement by his media assistant, Ferdinand Ekeoma, sent to this correspondent, Otti called for solidarity and prayers, even as he asked the people of the state to observe necessary hygienic measures.
“It is with sadness and regret that Dr. Alex Otti, OFR, received the very unfortunate news of the latest cases of Covid-19 in Abia state which saw 67 Abia residents testing positive to the virus, including some members of the Abia state executive council,” the statement reads.
“Most saddening, is the case of the state governor, Dr. Okezie Ikpeazu, who also tested positive. Dr. Otti hereby sends his best wishes of quick recovery and sincere solidarity to the governor, members of the state executive council, and other citizens who tested positive to the virus. The financial expert enjoined governor Ikpeazu to remain strong and courageous in the face of the Covid-19 trial, as a way of instilling confidence in other citizens who were also hit by the virus, and called on all Abians to take this pandemic very seriously. “Otti uses this opportunity to remind Abians that viruses act very mysteriously, and sometimes strike with unpredictable speed and surprise, hence the need for Abians to do away with doubt and carelessness, but rather adhere to every professional advice, and apply individual and institutional safety measures required to remain safe. “He adds that his very early intervention in the fight against the pandemic and support to selected hospitals, was predicated on his understanding of the threat posed by the virus, and the need to help check its spread, especially amongst medical personnel. “Dr. Otti wishes to thank public spirited Abia citizens and friends who responded to his call to support our people in this fight, particularly Access Bank that put up a 100 bed Isolation Centre in Amachara and The Abia Professionals League led by one of our illustrious daughters, Mrs. Ngozi Ekeoma who has just completed a state- of- the- art permanent 50 bed Infectious Diseases and Treatment Centre at FMC, Umuahia amongst many others. “He prays that God will replenish their sources a million fold. “Again Dr. Otti prays for very quick recovery for Governor Ikpeazu and other Abia Citizens battling the virus at this time.”