The Lagos State Government has revealed plans to continue to emphasize quality assurance and control standards in road construction and rehabilitation within the State by grouping Contractors into different categories depending on the technical ability and the precision of delivery on projects. The Special Adviser to the Governor on Works and Infrastructure, Engineer Aramide Adeyoye, who led top management of the Ministry on inspection of some on-going road construction work in Ijede and Agric-Ishawo Roads, Ikorodu and Gbagada in Kosofe Local Government, disclosed that plans are in the pipeline to place registered contractors into different categories to ultimately determine the quality and volume of projects each contractor will handle. Engineer Adeyoye said the purpose of the inspection was to assess the quality of work, stage of completion and materials being used by the contractors, noting that “As the process of reopening the economy takes shape after COVID-19 lockdown, we decided to embark on a tour of ongoing road projects across the State, to ensure quality control and standards in the delivery of all our projects”. According to her, the present administration has set a Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) for all construction projects, adding that the State’s crop of engineers have been empowered to monitor and ensure the quality of work done by contractors are up to international standard. In her words: “Quality assurance is the hallmark of this administration. We cannot afford to compromise standards in all projects as all these projects are being financed through taxpayers’ money. The only way to compensate them is to ensure they have value for their money”. While observing that extensive work was ongoing on Ijede and Agric-Ishawo Roads when the team visited the construction sites, the Special Adviser said some of the observations noticed by the team have been communicated to the contractors, stressing that Government will not issue a certificate of completion on any road projects not done to the required standard and scope of work. She emphasised the need for quality jobs and total adherence to project guidelines and directed contractors to effect corrections as identified by the team, directing that site engineers must ensure contract specifications are met. Adeyoye also added that the tour will be extended to other parts of the State where road projects are ongoing, assuring Lagosians that Government is determined to ensure these projects are delivered according to schedule.