The Nigerian government’s plan to concession its four international airports has received a boost as the Minister of Aviation, Senator Hadi Sirika received the Outline Business Case Certificate of Compliance for the concession of Lagos, Abuja, Port Harcourt and Kano International Airports from the Infrastructure Concession Regulatory Commission (ICRC). Receiving the certificates of compliance from the Director-General of the Commission Engr. Chidi Izuwah in Abuja, Nigeria’s capital. Senator Sirika said the next step is to seek approval from the Federal Executive Council to commence the full concession. “With these certificates of compliance we will go-ahead to the Federal Executive Council for approval for the full business of concession to proceed and that will turn the airport terminals to its full potential in private hands as millions of dollars would be pumped into the airports.” President Muhammadu Buhari had earlier approved the Aviation Sector Roadmap which the Ministry has been following and operating diligently and part of which was airport terminal concession. Senator Sirika, however, commended the Infrastructure Concession Regulatory Commission for ensuring compliance and value for money, transparency, equity, and fairness. He also expressed satisfaction with the quality of work done by the Transaction Advisers which resulted in the release of the certificates by the ICRC. The Minister noted that with the full implementation of the airport terminal concession about two hundred and forty-one thousand seven hundred additional jobs would be created in the aviation industry. In his remarks, the Director-General of ICRC Engr. Chidi Izuwah said the Nigerian Government through the Ministry of Aviation has adopted Public-Private Partnership PPP as the strategy to leverage on private sector participation and investment to achieve the upgrade and development of new terminal infrastructure at the four airports in a cost-effective and value -for- money manner. He said airports in Nigeria have great potentials but were currently operating at a sub-optimal level due to factors that will have to be improved under the PPP programme. According to Engr Izuwah, airport terminal concession was one of the critical projects under the aviation sector roadmap of the President Buhari’ s administration and fits well within the scope of the Ministry’s strategic plan for the sector. ” The next stages to be followed towards the realization of the projects are
Preparation of an Information Memorandum (Info Memo) and Request for Qualification (RFQ) by the Transaction Adviser and Placement of RFQ invitation to the interested bidders. Issuance of RFP to shortlisted firms Opening of data room and hosting of the pre-bid conference Technical proposals evaluation and public financial bid opening and declaration of preferred. reserved bids Negotiation and Preparation of Full Business Case ( FBC) Approval of the FBC by the Federal Executive Council and contract signing.” Engr Izuwa also said the Outline Business Case report for the concession of the Lagos, Abuja, Port Harcourt and Kano airport terminals under PPP arrangements was transmitted to the Commission on 1st June 2020 for certification. (VON)