The suspected serial killer in the Akinyele Local Government Area of Oyo State, Sunday Shodipe, has explained how he escaped from police custody. He spoke after he was re-arrested on Sunday.
Shodipe, who was kept at the Mokola Police Station following a court order, escaped on August 11.
While narrating how he escaped, said he climbed a tank stand and scaled the fence when he was taken out to take his bath.
“The new DPO at Mokola Police Station told a policeman, Funso, that he should take us out to have our bath. The policeman took me out and he warned me against trying to escape. I didn’t even think of escaping when he said that.
“But when I saw that he was engrossed in his discussion with a man, I climbed the tank stand and scaled the fence. It was around 7pm when I escaped”, he said.
Meanwhile, the head of Soludero Hunters, Nurein Ajijolanabai, has revealed the role played by his group in the re-arrest of Shodipe.
Ajijolaanabi said his boys led a team of policemen to the residence of the suspect’s grandma in the Bodija area of Ibadan where he was re-arrested.
Ajijolaanabi said the hunters were indifferent to the N500,000 bounty placed on the suspect.
He said he and his members were doing the job because of their desire to rid the state of criminals.
“The boy has mentioned some names and the police and my boys are searching for those he mentioned.
“We are not even asking the police for the N500,000 bounty, but we won’t reject it if they give us. We are doing what we are doing because we want our communities to be free of criminals.
“The DPO of the Ojoo Police Station contacted us and some of our boys led them to where he was re-arrested at Bodija.”
It would be recalled that the suspect was re-arrested on Sunday. The Police Public Relations Officer in Oyo State, Mr Olugbenga Fadeyi, who confirmed the development in Ibadan, said the 19-year-old suspect was back in custody.
Residents of the area were excited with the news of the re-arrest of the suspected ritual killer, warning that he must not be allowed to escape again.
The Inspector-General of Police, Mohammed Adamu, commended the Commissioner of Police in Oyo State, Nwachukwu Enwonwu, and his team for re-arresting the suspect.
The IG also warned the state police command against complacency in a statement by the Force Public Relations Officer, Frank Mba.
“The Nigeria Police Force, Oyo State Police Command, has re-arrested the notorious murder suspect, Sunday Shodipe, who escaped from lawful custody on 11th August, 2020. He was re-arrested today, Sunday, 23rd August, 2020 by police operatives in the Bodija area of Ibadan, the Oyo State capital.
“The IGP warned against any form of complacency on the part of the operatives of the Oyo State Police Command, stressing that all hands must be on deck to bring the case to a positive and successful closure.”
Asked if the suspect would be transferred to Abuja and who the police would pay the N500,000 bounty placed on Shodipe’s head to, Fadeyi said the CP would brief journalists on the matter within the next two days.