The Senate of the University of Lagos has elected Deputy Vice-Chancellor, Development Services, Prof. Folasade Ogunsola new Acting Vice-Chancellor. She polled 135 votes to beat Deputy Vice-Chancellor Management Services, Prof. Ben Oghojafor who had 31 votes. A total of 167 Professors were at the Senate meeting. Ogunsola was the first woman to be the Provost College of the Medicine University of Lagos before she became DVC. She is expected to act in the new role until the outcome of the Special Visitation Panel set up by the President, Muhammadu Buhari. This election follows the Federal Government’s directive that the University’s Pro-Chancellor and Chairman of Council, Wale Babalakin, and Vice-Chancellor, Prof. Oluwatoyin Ogundipe, recuse themselves from official duties, pending the outcome of the panel. The Federal Government gave the directive last Friday in a press statement signed by the Federal Ministry of Education spokesman, Ben Goong. It states, “Government also directs the Senate of the University of Lagos to immediately convene to nominate an acting Vice-Chancellor from amongst its members for confirmation by the Governing Council,” the statement added. Babalakin’s Governing Council had, on August 12, sacked Ogundipe as Vice-Chancellor over alleged financial misappropriation and misconduct. Ogundipe, however, rejected the Council’s decision, saying the University’s due process had not been followed. The University’s Senate, alumni, and labour unions also put out statements saying the due process had not been followed. But Babalakin, in several media reactions, insisted that due process had been complied with in terminating Ogundipe’s appointment. The Presidential Panel, made up of seven members, is expected to determine whether the required steps were taken by the Council in sacking Ogundipe. They are also expected “to make appropriate recommendations including sanctions for all those found culpable” in the investigation, which is expected to last for two weeks. The panel will be inaugurated by the Minister of Education, Adamu Adamu, on August 26. Members of the panel include Professor Tukur Sa’ad (Chairman), Barrister Victor Onuoha, Professor Ikenna Onyido, Professor Ekanem Braide, Professor Adamu K. Usman, Chief Jimoh Bankole and Barrister Grace Ekanem (Secretary).