BY EMEKA EJERE Since the total and partial lockdown of different parts of the country in a bid to check the spread of the novel Coronavirus disease (COVID-19), Nigerians have had to adjust to a new lifestyle occasioned by restrictions. With more than 954, 468 cases confirmed in 203 countries and territories, and 48, 558 people already killed as at April 2, the pandemic is arguably the biggest challenge facing humanity at the moment. In Nigeria, from February 27 when the index case was announced in Lagos till Thursday, March 2, 2020, 174 persons have been infected, with Lagos maintainingthe highest number of cases at 91 infections, followed by the FCT with 35 cases. Also in that order, Osun has 14, Oyo 8, Akwa Ibom 5,Ogun, Edo and Kaduna have 4 each, Bauchi 3, Enugu and Ekiti 2 each, while Rivers and Benue have one each. To contain the pandemic, President Muhammadu Buhari, on Sunday, March 29, announced the lockdown of Lagos, the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) and Ogun State with a view to containing the pandemic. In a long expected nationwide broadcast, the president said: “Based on the advice of the Federal Ministry of Health and the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC), I am directing the cessation of all movements in Lagos and the FCT for an initial period of 14 days with effect from 11:00 p.m. on Monday, March 30, 2020. This restriction will also apply to Ogun State due to its close proximity to Lagos and the high traffic between the two states. “All citizens in these areas are to stay in their homes. Travel to or from other states should be postponed. All businesses and offices within these locations should be fully closed during this period.” The president said government would use the “containment period to identify, trace and isolate all individuals that have come into contact with confirmed cases. We will ensure the treatment of confirmed cases while restricting further spread to other States.” He, however, listed some exceptions. These are hospitals and all related medical establishments as well as organisations in health care-related manufacturing and distribution; commercial establishments such as food processing, distribution and retail companies; petroleum distribution and retail entities; power generation, transmission and distribution companies; and private security companies. “Although these establishments are exempted, access will be restricted and monitored. Workers in telecommunication companies, broadcasters, print and electronic media staff, who can prove they are unable to work from home are also exempted,” he stressed. The president said: “All seaports in Lagos shall remain operational in accordance with the guidelines I issued earlier. The Ports Health Authority will thoroughly screen vehicles and drivers conveying essential cargoes from these ports to other parts of the country before departure. “Furthermore, all vehicles conveying food and other essential humanitarian items into these locations from other parts of the country will also be screened thoroughly before they are allowed to enter these restricted areas. “Accordingly, the Hon. Minister of Health is hereby directed to redeploy all Port Health Authority employees previously stationed in the Lagos and Abuja Airports to key roads that serve as entry and exit points to these restricted zones.” He also ordered the suspension of all passenger aircraft, both commercial and private jets, noting that special permits will be issued on a needs basis. Announcing a string of palliatives, Buhari “directed that a three month repayment moratorium for all TraderMoni, MarketMoni and FarmerMoni loans be implemented with immediate effect. He also directed that a similar moratorium be given to all Federal Government funded loans issued by the Bank of Industry, Bank of Agriculture and the Nigeria Export Import Bank. “For on-lending facilities using capital from international and multilateral development partners, I have directed our development financial institutions to engage these development partners and negotiate concessions to ease the pains of the borrowers. “For the most vulnerable in our society, I have directed that the conditional cash transfers for the next two months be paid immediately. Our internally displaced persons will also receive two months of food rations in the coming weeks,” he further said. “For residents of satellite and commuter towns and communities around Lagos and Abuja whose livelihoods will surely be affected by some of these restrictive measures, we shall deploy relief materials to ease their pains in the coming weeks,” he explained. While the shutdown of activities in Lagos and FCT took effect on March 30 as directed, that of Ogun State was shifted to commence from April 3, after the state government made a request to the federal government to allow them provide food for their residents. Days before his nationwide broadcast, the president had directed immediate release of N10 billion to Lagos State, the current epicenter of the outbreak, and N5 billion to the NCDC to boost their capacity in fighting the scourge. In a report published on March 25, Human Rights Watch (HRW) noted that Nigeria must ensure access to health services “on an equitable basis” and pay particular attention to displaced and vulnerable people while dealing with the coronavirus outbreak. “The Nigerian government should ensure that its response to the COVID-19 pandemic is rooted in respect for human rights by ensuring access to standard health care services, clean water, and other necessities to the most vulnerable communities,” HRW said in a report. Lagos State governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu, has consistently assured that his government will do everything possible to alleviate the suffering of residents of the state during the duration of the lockdown. However, many have doubted the relief materials reaching the truly vulnerable segments of the society as those assigned to distribute them may sacrifice fairness on the altar of party or other primordial sentiments. “I heard that Covid-19 palliatives are given to people loyal to ruling political parties and their members in some states. Nigerians must resist this anomaly”, laments Barrister Fred Nzeako, human right lawyer and public affairs commentator. A Lagos resident, Lawrence Emenike, said, “Some people want to try the patience of God. Suddenly COVID-19 will become an exclusive benefit for the supporters of the ruling party if they continue with the wicked and evil anomaly.”  Nigeria’s official Covid 19 vital statistics as at 11:00 am 3rd April 190                 confirmed cases 20                    discharged 2                      deaths For a breakdown of cases by states Lagos                         98 FCT                            38 Osun                          20 Oyo                             8 Akwa Ibom                5 Ogun                          4 Edo                             4 Kaduna                      4 Bauchi                       3 Enugu                        2 Ekiti                            2 Rivers                         1 Benue                        1  Source: NCDC website  Other states’ response Abia In addition to closing all schools in the state, Abia State government banned burial and wedding ceremonies of more than 30 guests. The state also banned religious activities of more than 50 persons for 30 days. It subsequently announced a four weeks closure of the state borders and markets from April 1, directing residents to stay at home and allowing only food sellers and providers of other essential items to operate. Adamawa On 30 March, Adamawa State government announced the closure of their state borders for fourteen days with effect from 31 March 2020, ordering a total lockdown in the state. The state government also announced that the ban affects tricycle, taxis and bus operators throughout the state. It also banned social activities and ordered the closure of all markets, except food markets, medicine markets and filling stations, directing banks to provide skeletal services. AkwaIbom Akwa Ibom State government ordered the closure of their state borders, except for the transportation of food items. The state government also directed their workers to stay at home for a week starting from March 30. The government also announced that their state-owned airline, Ibom Air, would suspend all its flight operations from March 29. Anambra On 19 March, Anambra State government announced the closure of their schools and suspension of public gatherings indefinitely. Tertiary institutions closed from March 20, while primary and secondary schools closed from March 27. The state government banned all public gatherings in the state with more than 30 persons, including weddings, festivals, funerals and clubs. On March 29, the state announced the closure of their 63 major markets from 31 March, for a period of two weeks, allowing only food items and medicine markets. It also announced the closure of River Niger Bridge with immediate effect, allowing only vehicles transporting food items and medicines. Bauchi Governor Bala Mohammed was the first high profile person to test positive to the virus in Nigeria. He had contacted it through the son of former vice president Atiku Abukabar, with whom he had shaken hands. Initially, he did not order a lockdown of the state however, subsequent events necessitated it. Bauchi State government also announced the closure of markets in the state from March 26 with the exception of those selling essential commodities like food items and medicine On March 31, the government announced the closure of their state borders for fourteen days with effect from April 2, ordering a total lockdown in the state and exempting essential services. Bayelsa Bayelsa State government also ordered the closure of all schools in the state from March 26 and restriction of all public gatherings above 50 persons. It also announced an immediate closure of their sea and land borders into and out of the state. Bayelsa State government also reviewed the earlier closure of their state borders with the exemption of vehicles transporting food, drugs and the vehicles conveying personnel on essential duty. Cross River Cross River State declared a total lockdown in the state. The local government council elections scheduled to hold on Saturday, March 28, in the state was also suspended indefinitely. The state shut down all educational institutions in the state – both public and private until further notice. Civil servants, except those on essential services such as medical personnel and revenue officers, were directed to stay away from work for an initial period of two weeks, with immediate effect. Social, cultural, and religious activities were suspended while essential activities in the state must not have a crowd beyond five persons. On transportation, the state government ordered that every tricycle and taxi should convey only one passenger at a time and must have hand sanitisers for use by their passengers. Commercial bus drivers are to have only two passengers on a seat and sanitise their vehicles   after every trip. “All the entry points into Cross River State (land, air, and water) are hereby locked down. Access will be based on passing a thorough screening regime,” Governor Ben Ayade, said. Delta Delta State government announced the closure of all their schools from March 26, banning all social gatherings of up to 20 persons, including burials, crusades and ordering the closure of clubs and cinemas with immediate effect. The state government also announced the closure of their borders into and out of the state for two weeks in the first instance. While the closure of Asaba airport took effect from March 27, that of land borders took effect from March 29. Malls, supermarkets, markets and shops were shut from April 1while food sellers were ordered to conduct their businesses within the precinct of their homes. The government also directed all residents to stay at home with effect from  April 1, staying that the restrictions donot apply to providers of essential services like; security healthcare, directing pharmacies to remain open, water services, fire services, power services, essential departments of media houses and telecommunications companies. The state government later reviewed the earlier closure of the borders and restriction of movement for their residents and announced the exemption of those involved in the transportation of essential supplies such as; food, water, petroleum products, pharmaceutical products and other essential services, noting that banks were to remain open only for skeletal services. Ebonyi On March 23, Ebonyi State government banned all public gatherings in the state, including weddings, seminars, conferences, burials and any other large gatherings. Three days later, the government announced the closure of their state borders from 28 March, allowing only vehicles carrying food items, construction materials, medical supplies and patients going for treatment. Edo On March 22, Edo State government announced the closure of all their schools from 23 March as well as an indefinite ban of any gathering of more than 50 people. The state government subsequently reduced the number of people allowed in any public gathering from 50 to 20, closing markets in the state and allowing only sellers of food items, medicines and other vital commodities to operate. Ekiti Ekiti State government banned social, political, religious and family gatherings of more than 20 persons. The state also ordered the closure of all their schools from 23 March. Ekiti State government banned the operations of markets in the state with the exception of those selling essential commodities like food items, water, medicine and medical equipment. On March 29, the state government placed a dusk-to-dawn curfew on the state, closing the state borders and banning inter-state travel from and into the state for fourteen days, except vehicles carrying food items, medical, petroleum products and other essential goods from March 30. It also ordered residents to stay at home, except those on essential services. The government also ordered the closure of all businesses, offices and places of worship. “All businesses and other entities shall cease operations during this period except those involved in the provision of essential goods or services. Markets, retail shops and shopping malls must be closed, except where essential goods are sold and with strict hygienic conditions to prevent the exposure of persons to COVID-19,” Governor Kayode Fayemi, said. Enugu Enugu State government also ordered the closure of all primary and secondary schools in the state from March 27, banning all social and political gatherings in the state. The state government announced an indefinite closure of its state borders and inter-state transportation in the state from 31 March, allowing only those on medical emergency services. Imo Imo State government also announced the indefinite closure of all schools in the state with immediate effect. The state government also ordered the indefinite closure of major markets in the state with effect from March 28. The government also closed its land borders, allowing entry upon screening. Imo State also announced an indefinite ban on all weddings, burial ceremonies and religious activities with immediate effect. The state government directed all civil and public servants to stop work immediately, except those on approved essential services.   Kaduna Kaduna State government placed a dusk-to-dawn curfew on the state, ordering residents to stay in their homes with immediate effect, except workers in essential services like; health workers, the fire service and security personnel. The government also ordered the closure of all businesses, offices and places of worship, banning wedding events and all social gatherings. Governor Nasir El Rufai who tested positive after self isolation had directed the provisions of necessary facilities to fight in the hospitals and isolation centre prepare the state to fight against the virus. Kano Kano State government suspended all gatherings in the state indefinitely. The state also announced an indefinite closure of their air and land borders into and out of the state with effect from March 27. Katsina Katsina State government announced the closure of their state borders from 28 March, allowing only fuel takers and vehicles conveying food items and other essential commodities, but with subject to screening and testing at the point of entry. Kebbi Kebbi State government announced the indefinite closure of all their primary and secondary schools. The state government also announced the restriction of all entries into and out of the state with immediate effect. Kogi Kogi State government also announced an indefinite closure of their sea and land borders, suspending the activities of commercial motorcycle in the state with effect from March 26. They also reduced the number of persons in any public gathering to 5. Kwara Kwara State government ordered the ban of commercial transportation, closure of all mosques, churches and markets with exception of markets selling drugs, food items and other essential commodities. The state government announced an indefinite closure of their state borders with immediate effect, exempting only vehicles carrying agricultural produce, medical equipment, and officials on essential duties. Gov. Abdulrahman Abdulrasaq, also announced the donation of 100% of his 10 month salary from May 29, 2019 to date to his administration’s efforts to prevent the spread of COVID-19. “Whereas our state has no confirmed case of Coronavirus as at now, we have been taking every step necessary to ensure we keep Kwara safe. Such measures have included keeping our people at home while we ramp up investments in our capacity to cope with this global health emergency,” Gov. AbdulRazaq said. Nassarawa Nasarawa State government ordered the indefinite closure of all their schools with immediate effect. The governor Abdullahi Sule, who had gone into self isolation for two weeks after being in contact with some index cases tested negative. In a television broadcast he had enjoined the people to abide by the measures put in place to protect and make themselves available for testing in case of any suspicion. The state government banned all social and religious gatherings of more than 50 persons, including weddings, churches services and mosque prayers with immediate effect. It also announced the restriction of all movement into the state. Niger Niger State government announced a shutdown in the state, restricting movement from 8am to 8pm daily, from March 25. It also banned the intra and inter-state movement of people and vehicles, exempting only vehicles carrying food items, fuel, medical supplies and other essential services. Ondo Ondo State government banned all political, religious and social gatherings in the state for fourteen days. The state government also announced the closure of their state borders with effect from April 2, prohibiting inter-state travels into the state. Osun Osun State government banned any public gatherings of more than 50 persons in the state with immediate effect, including schools, churches and mosques. The state reviewed their previous ban on public gatherings of more than 50 persons and changed it to a complete ban, enforcing it on all public gatherings in the state under any banner or organisation. It then banned weekly markets indefinitely in the state. The state government announced that the state would close all land boundaries effective midnight, Sunday, March 29, while movement within the state will cease March 31, with the exception of pharmaceutical, foods and medical needs outlets. “During the lockdown, there will be no movement within the state. The closed boundaries also mean there will be no inter-state movements. We have mandated and mobilised the state’s task force and security operatives to enforce the measures to the later”, Gov. Gboyega Oyetola said. Oyo Oyo State government ordered the closure of schools in the state and banned all social gatherings with more than 30 persons, including religious services, parties, burials and weddings. On March 37, Oyo State government placed dusk to dawn curfew on the state, banning inter-state travel from and into the state, except vehicles carrying food items, medical, pharmaceutical and petroleum products from 29 March. Governor Makinde who tested positive to the virus rejected the idea of a total lockdown, insisting that it would impose more hardship on the people. It also reduced the number of people allowed in a social gathering from 30 to 10, directing that all markets will be closed except those selling perishable food items from 29 March. Rivers Governor Nyeson Wike provided a test case on the demand of leadership in crisis times. His response was quick and effective once the first index case was announced; and the state has remained at the single case since then. He had ordered the closure of the airport before the federal government did; but his order was initially overruled by the government, because he did have the power to do so. However, he insisted that the airport could remain open but no passenger from the airport would be allowed into the state and airport worker in the state was permitted to enter the airport. His position nullified the policy of government to keep the airports open and forced a closure. Rivers State government also announced the closure of all their schools and directed the   restriction of all religious activities. A partial lockdown was announced in the state, closing cinemas, night clubs, public parks, weddings, burials and religious worship centres from 24 March. On March 25, Rivers State government announced an indefinite closure of their sea, air and land borders into and out of the state with effect from 26 March 2020.  It also announced an indefinite closure of all markets in the state from March 28. Sokoto Sokoto State government announced the closure of their state borders for two weeks from March 27, with the exception of vehicles transporting food and essential medical commodities. Taraba Taraba State government announced the closure of their state borders with effect from March 29, restricting movement in and out of the state. On April 1, Taraba State government announced the banning of all public gatherings of more than 20 persons in the state. The state government also ordered the closure of all markets with immediate effect, except those providing essential services such as; pharmacies, food stores and petrol service stations. 