By Sunday Oguntuyi, Osogbo The Ansar-ud-deen Muslim Society of Nigeria, Irewole Local Government Chapter on Saturday held a special prayer session for the success of the Gboyega Oyetola administration and for peace to continue to reign in the State of Osun. The prayer session, called at the instance of the Osun Commissioner For Finance, Mr Bola Oyebamiji, was hosted at his Ikire residence with members of the renowned Islamic society turning up in their large numbers for the annual end of year prayers. The society prayed for the continued growth and development of the State of Osun under Oyetola, just as they prayed that Almighty Allah should grant the Governor the wisdom and strength to continue to steer the ship of the state towards prosperity. Leading the prayer session, Chief Imam, Ansar-ud-deen society, Ikire, Alhaji Badmus Monsuru Adekunle urged the congregation to continue to pray for the Governor whom he described as God sent to the state because he has been able to stabilize the state just under two years of being in office. According to the Chief Imam, “We must always pray for our leaders, we thank God for the kind of Governor we have in Osun and we pray that God continues to bestow on him the wisdom to move our great state forward”. Speaking shortly after the prayer session for the Governor, the convener, Mr Bola Oyebamiji said the prayer session became necessary because of his belief in the efficacy of prayers which he said the Governor needs in the quest to take the state to greater heights. In his words, “It is not Governor Oyetola that will benefit from his second term in office but the masses of Osun, there is so much he has in plans for the people, we just have to pray that he returns for a second term in office. The achievements of the Governor despite the paucity of funds has reignited my belief in God. “From the various infrastructural developments across the state to the prompt and regular payment of salaries, it’s amazing what Oyetola is doing. You should also realize that Osun is the fifth state in Nigeria to implement the new minimum wage without agitation from workers, I can boldly say that the Governor has done well and he is still ready to do more”. The Commissioner stated.