Jama’atu Nasril Islam (JNI) has urged the President Muhammadu Buhari led federal government to henceforth stop paying lip service to security matters. The Sultan of Sokoto, Sa’ad Abubakar-led religious group in an apparent reference to the killings of 43 rice farmers by Boko Haram insurgents in Borno State at the weekend lamented that no part of the country is safe. According to the body in a statement issued on Wednesday in Kaduna by its Secretary General, Dr. Khalid Aliyu, what Nigerians expected from the government was actions against insecurity and not mere condemnation of attacks. Titled ‘Press release: Requiem for Zabarmari’, the statement reads in part: “We nevertheless, once again call on the Federal Government to rise up to its responsibilities and do well beyond the traditional condemnation, as lip service (s) on security matters should stop. Nigerians are desperately yearning for concrete actions.” Specifically, the religious body said Saturday’s killings at Zabarmari village, Jere Local Government Area of over 40 rice farmers by the dreaded Boko Haram insurgents without intervention of security forces was condemnable. It noted that with wanton killings occasioned by acts of banditry, kidnapping for ransom and other related crimes, Nigerians had been so terrified as nowhere was safe for them. The group also knocked the Federal Government’s nonchalant attitude to sympathise with victims of the attack, noting that a prompt visit to the area would assuage the feelings of the affected communities. The JNI statement read in part, “Forty-three human beings as reported by the media were slaughtered without any intervention by the security forces in the area. The senseless act stands condemned in the strongest of terms. “Wanton killings, acts of banditry, kidnapping for ransom, high rate of unemployment among the youths, rape and all forms of terrorism have now become the new trend in our communities. “Nigerians have become so much terrified, as nowhere is safe; the home, the farms and the roads. Bandits now rule in many communities; they set rules that must be obeyed.” Meanwhile, the Nigerian Governors’ Forum has lamented that the military would not be able to cope with the current security challenges in the country.