By Sunday Oguntuyi, Osogbo Osun state chairman of People’s Democratic Party (PDP), Hon. Soji Adagunodo has said the existing leadership of the party’s chairmen forum in the southwest region subsists. Adagunodo while reacting to the purported announcement of Ogun State PDP Chairman, Alhaji Sikirulai Ogundele, as the Chairman of the PDP Forum of State Chairmen in the South West by some members of PDP South West Caretaker Committee, said the claim by the said Ogun party chairman is null and void as the status quo is still maintained. In a statement he personally signed, copies of which made available with the newsment in Osogbo on Thursday, Adagunodo said he received the conjecture with shock and wish to state, in strong term, that the leadership of the forum is not in contention. He stated that the affair of the Forum of State Chairmen is an exclusive preserve of the State Chairmen and is independent of the mandate of the South West Caretaker Committee members or Southwest Working Committee. Adagunodo pointed out that the election of the leadership of the Forum of State Chairmen is not a business of the Caretaker Committee members. He argued that instead of creating problems where there is none, the committee should fully concentrate on it’s core mandate and not dabble into the affairs of the forum in any way. “The existing leadership of the forum still subsists and it has not been announced that the forum wants to change its leadership. In our capacity and in the best interest of our great Party, the entire members of the forum are taking positive steps and committed to sincere efforts geared towards the de-escalation of the crises within the party in the region and will not entertain unnecessary interference from any quarters, specifically from the Caretaker Committee Members, about who becomes what in the forum because we don’t want to bring the forum into the impasse rocking the party in the South West,” he said. “In the light of the above, the purported announcement by the caretaker members of the Party in the South West installing Alhaji Sikirulai Ogundele as the Forum Chairman cannot hold and is therefore, null and void and of no effect” The release also read, ” The decision to choose a chairman for the forum of PDP Chairmen will be announced by the Chairmen only when all the Six (6) State Chairmen meet in due course without interference from any quarters. This would further reinforce the reconciliatory moves of our leaders in the Zone and foster the anticipated stability” While acknowledging the giant strides and in totality, support the bridge building moves of the Zonal Reconciliations Committee led by His Excellency Former Governor of Osun State, Prince Olagunsoye Oyinlola, Adagunodo equally reiterate the forum unalloyed support for and total commitment to the leadership of His Excellency Governor Seyi Makinde in the Zone. He however implored all discontented leaders of thought in Zone to sheath their swords and allow peace to reign. He also called on every conscious member of the Caretaker Committee to steer clear of the affairs of the Forum and to desist forthwith, from any actions that may further decimate the Party and not submit to the tricks of those who are hellbent on running the Party in the South West aground.