By Sunday Oguntuyi, Osogbo Iragbiji Indigenes under the auspices of Iragbiji Indigenes Association (IIA) in Boripe local government of Osun state has commended the governor of the state, Mr. Adegboyega Oyetola for graciously approving 16.55km Osogbo/Kelebe/ Iragbiji road which links the ancient town of Iragbiji to Osogbo, the capital of the state. The association also saluted the ‘selfless service to humanity of the administration of governor Oyetola in the state.’ This was contained in a release issued and jointly signed by Engr. Yomi Alade Taiwo, Mr. Mutiu Oladele Azeez and Alh. Folake Olaniyan, the chairman, Secretary and Public Relations Officer of the association respectively copies of which made available to the newsmen in Osogbo on Friday. The association said, the administration of governor Oyetola has earmarked about N6 billion for infrastructural development in the 2020 budget with  N3billion for Road construction in the state. “We wish to reiterate our commitment and sincere gratitude to your leadership for the approval of the construction of 16.55km long Osogbo-Kelebe-Iragbiji road, which the contractor Messrs SLAVABOGU is expected to commence work immediately and the road project is to be completed in 8 months,” the statement said “It is important to bring to your attention that IRAGBIJI particularly, this newly awarded road axis has enormous land mass with extensive agricultural and developmental features capable of jump-starting the industrial hub policy which was part of your manifesto during your electioneering process” “These areas have very high economic potentials for the state. However, it is our observation that the construction of this road will bring great development to IRAGBIJI land and it’s environs” “Consequently, we sincerely appreciate you for the award of this contract which is in consonance with your administration’s plan to build roads in each of the local council areas in the state. This newly approved road will serve the heartland of all the neighboring communities and will enhance resource flow into Osogbo, the state capital. It will also alleviate the accommodation problems at Osogbo which is fast becoming a large cosmopolitan city. Indeed, many people will be able to build homes and live along this axis as well. At the completion of the road construction, it will attract private and public businesses into the Iragbiji community and will create employment opportunities for citizens thereby alleviating the unemployment problems in the state. Also, due to its topography, this area will soon become famous tourist attractions in the state. Mr. Governor sir, we are glad to inform you that the road will enhance the full economic productivity of the people of Boripe Local Government Area” “Since the objectives of our community are economic and social empowerment of Iragbiji people at home and abroad, we see the construction of this road as the sine qua non for the economic revitalization of our land. Also, we congratulate the Aragbiji of Iragbiji land Oba Abdul-Rasheed Ayotunde Olabomi for his steadfastness and untiring efforts in making this a dream come true after many failing attempts of leadership in years past. We also appreciate the Special Adviser to the Governor on Works, our indefatigable former IIA chairman, Engr. Toke Olaniyan for his untiring effort and support to Mr. Gov towards making this a reality” “Mr. Governor sir, as a true son of the soil we are highly grateful for considering the construction of the kelebe-Iragbiji road as the next phase of road construction in the state. We will continue to pray for you and for your vision for our dear State”. The statement concluded.