–– distributes  palliatives to Abians PETER OKORE, Umuahia Minister of State for Steel and Solid Minerals, Dr. Uchechukwu Ogah has said he is touched by the economic hardships Abians are passing through as a result of Covid -19  pandemic lockdown, noting that  a situation where an enterprising people like Abians are compelled to sit at home for months was not acceptable. Ogah who spoke at his country-home, Onuaku-Uturu in Isuikwuato Local Government Area of the state at the commencement of  distribution of large quantities  of food-items he provided for his constituents, urged them not to despire. The items probably provided by the All Progressive Congress governorship candidate in the 2019 governorship election in the state, included  20,000 bags of rice , 1000 bags of 100kg  beans, 10,000 cartons of  Indomie Noodles and  Spaghetti as well as hand sanitizers. The entrepreneur turned politician who spoke through the Director- General of his Campaign Organisation, Mr. Kingsley Ugbaja, observed  with delight that the cases of the pandemic were not high in the state, but urged the people to  be  vigilant  and comply with government directives towards stemming the spread. He explained that  the  palliatives being distributed at his instance, were his personal contribution to the fight against the pandemic as well as a way of identifying with his  people at this trying moment, pointing out that the materials would  reach  every family in the state. ”The  relief materials will be distributed in batches,  until it  gets to every house-hold,  particularly, the vulnerable groups. People should be patient until the materials  get to them,” he said. Some of the beneficiaries present at the scene  of  the event included representatives of the Christian Association of Nigeria, CAN, members of the  Abia State chapter  of  APC in all 17  Local Government  councils of the state, community leaders as well as journalists who invited to cover the event. In appreciation, the Chairman of Abia state chapter of CAN, Rev. Emmanuel Agomuo  commended Ogah for the gesture. Agomuo asserted  that such was the first -time any private individual would be giving out massive palliatives to complement government’s efforts in the state. The cleric who promised equitable sharing  of the materials, prayed God to bless the donor, while urging other privileged people in the state to emulate him. In his own contribution,  the Chairman of the Correspondents Chapel of the Nigeria Union of Journalists, NUJ, Comrade Obinna Ibe, thanked the Minister for including journalists on the list of beneficiaries of  the stimulus package. Ibe noted that journalists have staked their lives by remaining  at the front- lines in the fight against the pandemic, but are often neglected. He  noted that  Ogah has,  by the  gesture, encouraged journalists not to relent in their  selfless sacrifices to humanity