By ADEBAYO   OBAJEMU In today’s Nigeria, it is no longer a wise decision to rely on salary to maintain an average household. Job security, aside harsh economic climate is increasingly under strain. To keep afloat, households must source for other engagement to complement the salaried job. In other words, family heads or individuals must look for multiple stream of income. To get to that level, one must look for side business to maximize opportunities. Many have long     concluded that one should either be career-driven or have an entrepreneurial mindset to earn money. However, it need not be so. In this modern period, career-oriented individuals are looking for opportunities to maximize their profits, and one of the best ways of doing this is to invest in a side business. It is quite pertinent to state that doing any side business will depend on factors such as time, skill and capital. Hence, it is critical to first weigh these variables before you delve into business. Some of the businesses that can readily come handy are:  While there are lots of people involved in blogging, not everyone does it right. You have to create a niche for yourself and decide what topics to focus your writings on. Then you work on building an audience for yourself.  If you do, then this is a great way to earn some spare money, while you keep your job. Listen to great podcasters and adopt one or two techniques from them. The more your audience grows, the more money you make from your podcast.  Graphics designers are in high demand currently; as such, having prior knowledge of graphic design is a plus. However, it does not mean you cannot start from scratch and be successful. With creativity, dedication and graphic design tools like Corel Draw and Adobe Illustrator, you can be paid to create images and designs.  People that do this type of marketing are mostly celebrities or people with a large following or fan base across social platforms. Getting into this type of business does not require much in terms of capital. You will need to create viral, yet exciting content that will drive people to your page, convert those page visits to follows and make an active follower base.  You can reach out to companies directly, or they can contact you if you have gained a large fan base.  You are solely responsible for providing recommendations and advice necessary to enhance the brand’s online presence. The beautiful part is that you can do it from anywhere.  You can also create manuals and booklets on healthy living. The best part is that you can do it from the comfort of your home. With time, this can become a full-time job. Check out professional trainers for tips on how to become one.   Every business has a specific audience, and it is your job to provide relevant content for said audience. You have to stay at the top of your game to remain relevant. There is not much needed in terms of investment to be a content writer. You just have to write and keep learning.  It can be as mundane as offering cooking classes or teaching people how to optimize their living space. You can even provide a free course on basic training to attract people and have them pay for more advanced training. You just have to understand the market and use whatever sales strategies needed to sell your skill. Monetize your knowledge.  All in all, aside business has a lot of wonderful advantages. Besides being another source of revenue, it is also a great way to broaden your horizon and add to your repertoire 