OBINNA EZUGWU Nigeria’s vice president, Prof Yemi Osinbajo has tendered an apology to Nigerian youths protesting against police brutality, noting that the federal government could have acted faster on their demands. Osinbajo who tendered the apology in a statement on Friday, noted that there are far too many people who have been brutalised at the hands of the police and it is unacceptable. He promised that the federal government woul take responsibility for protecting young people, even sometimes from those who are paid to protect them. “Dear Nigerians, I know that many of you are angry, and understandably so. We could’ve moved faster and for this we are sorry,” Osinbajo said. “I fully understand how many young people feel. Many feel that we have been too silent and have simply not done enough. These feelings of frustration are justified. “There are far too many people who have been brutalised at the hands of the police and this is unacceptable. We must take responsibility for protecting young people, even sometimes from those who are paid to protect them. The vice president said the federal government has been having meetings with key stakeholders with a view to addressing the yearnings of the youths, even as he assured that President Muhammadu Buhari has ordered the disbanding of SARS. “Over the past week, we have been following the protests, and I have had a number of discussions with key people in the administration that you deserve to be informed about. Transparency, after all, is a key tenet of government,” he said “Several meetings have been held with: the Senate President, Ahmad Lawan; Speaker of the House of Representatives, Femi Gbajabiamila; the Chief of Staff to Muhammadu Buhari, Prof Ibrahim Gambari; Chairman of Police Service Commission; the IG of Police, Mohammed Adamu; the Executive Secretary of National Human Rights Commission and governors. “We understand that you want to see action from us and I’m here to tell you that work is ongoing. I chaired a meeting of 36 state governors and the Minister of the FCT (NEC), where we resolved to set up judicial panels of inquiry so we can see justice served, and fast. “The reason being that only state governors, by law, can set up judicial inquiries in their states. The hearings will be public. “With Mr. President’s approval, SARS has been completely disestablished, and none of its former members will feature in any police tactical units. “I am sending my deepest condolences to the families of Jimoh Isiaq, and all those who have lost their lives at the hands of wayward police officers. To those injured, I wish a full and speedy recovery. “We have proposed that each state government set up a Victims’ Support Fund, which Nigeria government will support. This is the least that we can do to compensate for the injustice suffered at the hands of errant officers. “We also understand that the issues that you’re raising are bigger than just SARS. They’re deep and systemic and we’re undertaking comprehensive measures that will revamp the police by addressing issues of welfare, service conditions and training. “On Monday, Mr. President also reiterated his commitment to these extensive police reforms. “We will continue to update and engage with you all on these action steps and the ones to come, in the spirit of transparency, so that you can hold us accountable. We are, after all, here to serve you and we owe you a duty to win back your trust.”